.TH SAMEFILE 1 "14 APRIL 2010" "" SAMESAME
.\"
.\" $Id: samesame.1,v 3.0 2009/01/01 00:00:00 akruijff Exp $
.\"
.\" To format this file into a text file say
.\"
.\"    nroff -man samesame.1              or
.\"    groff -mandoc -Tascii samesame.1
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 1996 Jens Schweikhardt.  All rights reserved.
.\" Copyright (c) 2009 Alex de Kruijff.  All rights reserved.
.\"
.\" Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
.\" modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions
.\" are met:
.\" 1. Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.
.\" 2. Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the
.\"    documentation and/or other materials provided with the distribution.
.\"
.\" THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE AUTHOR ``AS IS'' AND ANY EXPRESS OR
.\" IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE IMPLIED WARRANTIES
.\" OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE ARE DISCLAIMED.
.\" IN NO EVENT SHALL THE AUTHOR BE LIABLE FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT,
.\" INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT
.\" NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE,
.\" DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION) HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY
.\" THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT LIABILITY, OR TORT
.\" (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY OUT OF THE USE OF
.\" THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGE.

.SH NAME

\fBsamesame\fP - introduction to the samesame tools
.SH DESCRIPTION

SameSame is a collection of tools that fall in to the category of file
management software.
These tools will prevent that you need to delete files or buy more disk
space.
Instead they solve low disk space problems by linking identical files
together and thus free up waisted disk space.

This collection was inspired by the application samefile written by Jens
Schweikhardt.
The collection comes with its own version of samefile that is noticeable
faster and is able to process a much larger file list.

This port containt two set of application: the first are duplicate files
finder search for identical files and the second are duplicate file
removers perform some kind of action based on those results.

Typical usage would be: find / | samefile -i | samelink

This would search for identical files and clean up wasted disk space by
linking them together.
If you prefer removing one of the identical file, then you should
replace samelink with samerm.
You can add the option -vn after both application for a verbose
dry-run.

The tools two groups: duplicate file finders and action driven tools.
.SH DUPLICATE FILE FINDERS

These tools read a list of filenames (one filename per line) from
stdin and output the identical files on stdin.
And report the identical files on the output.

\fBsamearchive\fP reads a list of filenames (from stdin) and a list of
directories (from the paramenters).
And reports the identical files if, and only if, they have the same
relative path.

\fBsamearchive-lite\fP reads a partial list of filenames and directories
(from the paramenters).
And combines the partial list with the parameters to get a full list.
And reports the identical files if, and only if, they have the same
relative path.

\fBsamefile\fP reads a list of filenames (from stdin) and reports the
identical files.
And reports a full list of identical files on the output.
.SH ACTION DRIVEN TOOLS

These tools all read the samefile output (each line containing two files
that are identical) that the duplicate file finders output and perform
some action.
The can be split in non-consumers and consumerss.
The latter consumers the match lines when they succeed in perorming the
actions.
And the non-consumers don't.

The non-consumers are:

\fBsamechflags\fP change file flags

\fBsamechmod\fP change file modes

\fBsamechown\fP change file owner and group

The consumers are:

\fBsamelink\fP frees up the waisted disk space by relinks one to the
other.

\fBsamecp\fP copies the first file of a pair of identical files to
another location

\fBsamemv\fP moves the first file of a pair of identical files to
another location

\fBsamerm\fP removes the last file of identical files to free disk space
.SH "SEE ALSO"

.BR samearchive-lite (1)
.BR samefile (1)
.BR samelink (1)
.BR find (1)
.BR ls (1)

.SH AUTHOR

.nf
Alex de Kruijff
.fi

